- As we begin talking about culture changes
around secure coding,
I think it is only fitting to talk first
about the point where most developers
begin their engagement,
and that is the design.
Design is a great place to start looking at ways
to make your application more secure for various reasons,
but I want to focus on some strategies
for how to take security into account during design.
I like to start all of my design activities
by looking at the system design.
Whether it's a complete system in waterfall
or a simple feature in Scrum,
the system itself is key.
By looking at what you are building,
you can start looking at ways to destroy it,
and that is in my opinion
one of the greatest assets for a secure developer.
I feel very strongly that developers struggle with security
because they are trying to build,
not tear down.
Good security people learn how to tear down systems.
They learn how to exploit features to attack the system.
This is what you should aim for in design.
Look at your system
or even your feature with a critical eye.
Identify the weakest points in your design
from a security perspective.
Armed with the knowledge that we've just looked at,
do you run the risk of injection attacks
or memory attacks?
Do you leverage a database
and therefore have to work around database issues?
The list goes on and on.
But the point is you are creating an inventory of risks.
These observations on your design
can then be used during development and testing
to ensure you are putting appropriate controls in place.
Sometimes it is an active control.
Sometimes it may be passive.
Sometimes they may be compensating controls
and sometimes you may determine the risk is too great
and you simply remove the feature completely.
The point is you have collected the information,
made observations,
and started the conversation with security
early in the development process,
and that is one critical component of a culture of security.